---
layout: post
title: README.cu
---

README</h1>

<h4><i>A Student-Written Guide to Computer Science and Tech at Columbia</i></h4>

<h2>Forward:</h2> 

A handful of students in ADI wanted to write down some of the things they’ve picked up during their time at Columbia and this is a very early result geared towards underclassmen. Hopefully with time this will grow to be a resource that students throughout the Computer Science and tech community at Columbia will contribute to and find useful.

If you have comments/questions or would like to contribute to this guide, contact us at readme@adicu.com or meet us in person at ADI’s Cookies and Code every Wednesday from 10pm - midnight in Lerner Satow Room. In particular, we need help fleshing out resources for students interested in research and academia.

While this document is meant to serve as a guide to navigating the tech and computer science communities at Columbia, it does not reflect the range of experiences Columbia students represent. With that said, take everything you read here with a grain of salt, and if you have anything to add, once again, contact us at readme@adicu.com. 

<h2> Glossary </h2> 
<b>ADI:</b> The tech club at Columbia.

<b>AI: </b>Artificial Intelligence

<b>AP: </b>COMSW3157 Advanced Programming, part of the CS Core

<b>CS:</b> Computer Science

<b>CV: </b>Computer Vision

<b>CORE: </b>Columbia Organization of Rising Entrepreneurs

<b>Dev: </b>Developer

<b>Hackathon:</b> A (typically overnight) coding marathon where teams compete to build apps and win prizes. Examples include DevFest and hackNY.

<b>ML: </b>Machine Learning

<b>NLP: </b>Natural Language Processing

<b>OS: </b>Operating Systems

<b>PLT: </b>Programming Languages and Translators

<b>P Set:</b> Problem Set/Homework

<b>Stat ML:</b> Statistical Machine Learning

<b>SWE:</b> Software Engineer[ing]

<b>SWE: </b>Society of Women Engineers

<b>WiCS: </b>Women in Computer Science


